Wikipedia:WikiProject Resource Exchange From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Wikipedia:WRE) Jump to navigation Jump to search Wikimedia editing process collaboration This is a WikiProject, an area for focused collaboration among Wikipedians. New participants are welcome; please feel free to join! Guide to WikiProjects Directory of WikiProjects Shortcuts WP:WRE WP:RESOURCE WP:RESOURCES WikiProject Resource Exchange Shortcuts WP:WRE, WP:RESOURCE, WP:RESOURCES Departments Resource Request Shared Resources Ask the help desk Phoebe (e-mail) Additional free access resources GFDL resources Image resources List of bibliographies Maps Online resources Public domain resources Public domain image resources Non-PD resources Sound resources The Resource Exchange is a WikiProject dedicated to organizing and sharing the vast resources available to Wikipedians, to aid in verification. Some Wikipedians have limited or no access to information sources; other users have access to resources that are difficult to find or are cost-prohibitive for most people. This project tries to bring those two sides together, so that someone looking for a source to back an edit, can easily ask a member of the Resource Exchange to provide a relevant document. Basically, we are trying to create kind of a virtual library. Contents 1 How it works 2 Guidelines and tips 2.1 Use of the resources 2.2 Input of participants 2.3 Other options 3 Open tasks 4 Project tools 4.1 Categories 4.2 Subpages 4.3 Templates 5 Resources 6 See also How it works[edit] This project has two main features: Shared Resources: a list of resources available to other Wikipedians. Add your own resources here in the appropriate section. Search this list if you're looking for a source and ask the Wikipedian who left his or her name for help. Resource Request. Request a specific article or document, or request a specific search in a commercial full-text newspaper/journal database or another information database. The participants of this project try to track down your request and e-mail it to you. Guidelines and tips[edit] Use of the resources[edit] Users should note that these shared usage offers are only valid for Wikipedia purposes. It's best to first scan the Shared Resources list, before placing a request on the Resource Request page. That way, you avoid a lot of unnecessary work for the participants involved. There are other language versions of this WikiProject offering library help. A lot of other language libraries have access to a wide variety of English material, and most likely you'll get help in English too. You can find those projects by using the links in the 'languages' navigation box. Most of the time, the offered sources are not public domain resources. They may be helpful references, but you are not allowed to publish them, pass them on, use them for commercial purposes or use them verbatim for Wikipedia articles. Some public domain resources can be found in the navigation box above. Input of participants[edit] Anyone can add their resources to the list or fill requests, no need to sign up anywhere. It is assumed that the resources you offer are available to you for free or that you are willing to cover any costs. Other options[edit] Many databases and other online publications that are normally paid for are available for free for personal use at many public libraries, often requiring only a library card, itself available for free to local people. An interlibrary loan service is available at most local libraries, in many cases for free. Consider this as an option when you have a specific work in mind. Such a service will almost always be faster and more reliable than this project. Open tasks[edit] Add your own sources to the Shared Resources, or help solve requests on the Resource Request. Expand the list of articles in the Category:WikiProject Resource Exchange articles. Find fitting articles on Wikipedia about an information resource, and add the {{WikiProject Resource Exchange}} template to the talk page. Place links to the Resource Exchange on related project pages. Project tools[edit] Categories[edit] Click on "?" below to display subcategories: ? WikiProject Resource Exchange Click on "?" below to display subcategories: ? Wikipedia sources Click on "?" below to display subcategories: ? WikiProject reference libraries Subpages[edit] List of all subpages of this page Templates[edit] {{WikiProject Resource Exchange}} - for talk pages of related articles {{User WikiProject Resource Exchange}} - userbox for participants {{Diligent Librarian Barnstar}} - barnstar award for exceptional valour in delivering up the sources (please list recipients on the template talk page.) Resources[edit] Wikipedia:Book sources Wikipedia:Journal sources Wikipedia:WikiProject Fact and Reference Check - project that actively verifies articles. Wikipedia:WikiProject Unreferenced articles - project that adds references to unreferenced articles de:Wikipedia:Bibliotheksrecherche (Library research) - alternative German version of this project, with a lot of English material. List of academic databases and search engines List of digital library projects List of scientific journals Wikipedia:Free English newspaper sources Wikipedia:United States government document search tools See also[edit] Wikipedia:Forward to Libraries Wikipedia:WikiProject Bibliographical Database Wikipedia:WikiProject Open Access Wikipedia:The Wikipedia Library v t e WikiProject Council WikiProject guides WikiProject Council Talk Guidelines/Intro WikiProjects Task forces Technical notes Assessment FAQ Work via WikiProjects Directories and summaries Directory Proposals Signpost Shortcuts Popular pages Database reports Watchers Culture and the arts Arts Music Performing Plastic Visual Broadcasting Crafts and hobbies Entertainment Games and toys Food and drink Internet culture Language and literature Biography Linguistics Media Philosophy and religion Sports Geographical Bodies of water Cities Countries Africa Americas Asia Europe Oceania Landforms Maps Parks, conservation areas and historical sites History and society History and society Business and economics Education Military and warfare Politics and government Transportation Science, technology and engineering Science Biology Chemistry Economics Geosciences Information science Mathematics Medicine Meteorology Physics Space Technology Time Wikipedia assistance and tasks Contents systems Maintenance Files Article improvement and grading Classroom projects WikiProjects Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:WikiProject_Resource_Exchange&oldid=965471540" Categories: Active WikiProjects WikiProject Resource Exchange Wikipedia WikiProjects Wikipedia sources Wikipedia resources for researchers Hidden categories: Project pages with short description Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Project page Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Donate Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Print/export Download as PDF Printable version Languages ?eština Deutsch ???????? Español Français ??????? ?????? Italiano ????? Norsk bokmål Polski Português ??????? ???? ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 1 July 2020, at 14:27 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Mobile view Developers Statistics Cookie statement
