Skip to content Menu Share your work Use & remix What We Do Blog Creative Commons Global Network Search the Commons Share your work Use & remix What We Do Blog Search for CC images Global Network Newsletter Store Contact Facebook Twitter Mail Help us build a vibrant, collaborative global commons Donate Now Creative Commons > What We Do > About CC Licenses Find news by topic About CC Arts / culture CC-Licensed Projects Community Education / OER Events Global affiliates Journalism Legal tools / licenses Open access Open data Open science Policy / advocacy / copyright reform Press Public Domain Share your work Technology Uncategorized Weblog In this section About CC Licenses FAQ Get Involved Team Downloads Bassel Khartabil Fellowships and Memorial Fund Global Affiliate Network Creative Commons Platforms Program areas Videos Store Contact About CC Licenses Creative Commons licenses give everyone from individual creators to large institutions a standardized way to grant the public permission to use their creative work under copyright law. From the reuser’s perspective, the presence of a Creative Commons license on a copyrighted work answers the question, “What can I do with this work?” The Creative Commons License Options There are six different license types, listed from most to least permissive here: CC BY: This license allows reusers to distribute, remix, adapt, and build upon the material in any medium or format, so long as attribution is given to the creator. The license allows for commercial use. CC BY includes the following elements: BY – Credit must be given to the creator CC BY-SA: This license allows reusers to distribute, remix, adapt, and build upon the material in any medium or format, so long as attribution is given to the creator. The license allows for commercial use. If you remix, adapt, or build upon the material, you must license the modified material under identical terms. CC BY-SA includes the following elements: BY – Credit must be given to the creator SA – Adaptations must be shared under the same terms CC BY-NC: This license allows reusers to distribute, remix, adapt, and build upon the material in any medium or format for noncommercial purposes only, and only so long as attribution is given to the creator. It includes the following elements: BY – Credit must be given to the creator NC – Only noncommercial uses of the work are permitted CC BY-NC-SA: This license allows reusers to distribute, remix, adapt, and build upon the material in any medium or format for noncommercial purposes only, and only so long as attribution is given to the creator. If you remix, adapt, or build upon the material, you must license the modified material under identical terms. CC BY-NC-SA includes the following elements: BY – Credit must be given to the creator NC – Only noncommercial uses of the work are permitted SA – Adaptations must be shared under the same terms CC BY-ND: This license allows reusers to copy and distribute the material in any medium or format in unadapted form only, and only so long as attribution is given to the creator. The license allows for commercial use. CC BY-ND includes the following elements: BY – Credit must be given to the creator ND – No derivatives or adaptations of the work are permitted CC BY-NC-ND: This license allows reusers to copy and distribute the material in any medium or format in unadapted form only, for noncommercial purposes only, and only so long as attribution is given to the creator. CC BY-NC-ND includes the following elements: BY – Credit must be given to the creator NC – Only noncommercial uses of the work are permitted ND – No derivatives or adaptations of the work are permitted The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication CC0 (aka CC Zero) is a public dedication tool, which allows creators to give up their copyright and put their works into the worldwide public domain. CC0 allows reusers to distribute, remix, adapt, and build upon the material in any medium or format, with no conditions. Choosing a License The six licenses and the public domain dedication tool give creators a range of options. The best way to decide which is appropriate for you is to think about why you want to share your work, and how you hope others will use that work. For help, try the Creative Commons License Chooser. Before Licensing Before you apply a CC license or CC0 to your work, there are some important things to consider: The licenses and CC0 cannot be revoked. This means once you apply a CC license to your material, anyone who receives it may rely on that license for as long as the material is protected by copyright, even if you later stop distributing it. You must own or control copyright in the work. Only the copyright holder or someone with express permission from the copyright holder can apply a CC license or CC0 to a copyrighted work. If you created a work in the scope of your job, you may not be the holder of the copyright. See this page for more pre-licensing considerations. How to apply a CC license or CC0 to your work CC-licensing your work is simple. All you have to do is choose the CC license that suits your needs and then communicate this choice in a way that will be clear to people who come across your work. As part of this communication, you should include a link to the license you’ve chosen. This can be as simple as a bit of text stating and linking to the license in a copyright notice, like this: © 2019. This work is licensed under a CC BY 4.0 license. …or as complex as embedding the license information on your website using the HTML code associated with the particular license. Use the Creative Commons License Chooser to get the relevant HTML code. Recent Posts 24 x Open Education Lightning Talks We’re Against Digital Rights Management. Here’s Why. Explore the New CC Legal Database Site! In this section About CC Licenses FAQ Get Involved Team Downloads Bassel Khartabil Fellowships and Memorial Fund Global Affiliate Network Creative Commons Platforms Program areas Videos Store Contact Donate to help keep the internet free and open! $25 $50 $75 $100 Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. The growing commons 1.6 billion works and counting. Explore these featured Creative Commons Licensed resources below — from literary works, to videos, photos, audio, open education, scientific research and more! Or you can share your work, and help light up the global commons! Contact Privacy Policies Terms Search for: Search We'd love to hear from you! Creative Commons PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042 info@creativecommons.org 1-415-429-6753 Frequently Asked Questions Except where otherwise noted, content on this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license. Icons by The Noun Project. Search for: Search
